# SF2Lib - an SF2 library in C++

This library can read SF2 SoundFont files and render audio samples from them. It properly reads in a compliant SF2 file 
and can be used to obtain meta data such as preset names. It also has an audio rendering engine that can generate audio 
samples for key events that come from (say) a MIDI keyboard. Work on the rendering side is still on-going, but at 
present it can generate audio at the right pitch. This library is currently being used by my 
[SoundFonts](https://github.com/bradhowes/SoundFonts) application for SF2 file parsing, and soon for rendering.

Although nearly all of the code is generic C++17, there are bits that expect an Apple platform that has 
the AudioToolbox and Accelerate frameworks available. However, this usage is fairly isolated. The goal is to be a 
simple library for reading SF2 files as well as a competent SF2 audio renderer whose output can be fed to any sort of 
audio processing chain, not just macOS and iOS systems Core Audio systems. For my own use, this will be used in AUv3
components on iOS and macOS platforms.

# DSPTableGenerator

The SF2Lib relies on some lookup tables for fast value conversions of expensive operations at the cost of resolution.
The library comes with generated values, but it also has a command-line tool to regenerate it. In the Xcode project that
originally hosted this code, the generation of the table values was automated. Swift Package Manager does not support
this type of operation, so we are left with a manual step:

```
% bash regen.sh
```

# Code

Here is a rough description of the top-level folders in SF2Lib:

* [DSP](Sources/SF2Lib/DSP) -- various utility functions for signal processing and converting values from one unit to
another. Some of these conversion rely on tables generated by the `DSPTableGenerator` tool mentioned above.

* [Entity](Sources/SF2Lib/Entity) -- representations of entities defined in the SF2 spec. Provides for fast loading of
SF2 files.
* [include](Sources/SF2Lib/include) -- headers for the library. Note that the library exists mostly in header files with
very little to be found in source files.
* [IO](Sources/SF2Lib/IO) -- performs the reading and loading of SF2 files.
* [MIDI](Sources/SF2Lib/MIDI) -- state for a MIDI connection.
* [Render](Sources/SF2Lib/Render) -- handles rendering of audio samples from SF2 entities.
* [Resources](Sources/SF2Lib/Resources) -- a few SF2 files to use for experimentation and testing. Though these files 
are currently packaged with SF2Lib, they are not part of the SF2Lib API.

# Credits

All of the code has been written by myself over the course of several years, but I have benefitted from the existence of 
other projects, especially [FluidSynth](https://www.fluidsynth.org) and their wealth of knowledge in all things SF2. 
In particular, if there is any confusion about what the SF2 spec means, I rely on their interpretation in code. That
said, any misrepresentations of SF2 functionality are of my own doing.
